## Harmony

Another ship full of zombies arrived in the harbor. It was sunk in
time—just barely, I think.  It was a container ship, loaded with
rectangular metal shipping containers, towering stacks of containers
that popped open to reveal thousands upon thousands of zombies inside,
who then climbed all over the containers, jumping and shouting and
waving at the people on the docks and on shore.

I witnessed this one, and I can tell you truly: they were all shouting
and singing in perfect Chinese, which was all the more unsettling
because not one of them, as far as I could tell, had been Chinese.

One zombie ship made it to shore, last week, in Shanghai.  That would
explain why that city was locked down, even telephone calls not
permitted in or out, for three days.  Then they would sporadically
quarantine this block or that block, depending on what some crazy old
person or vindictive neighbor reported.  Whether the Guard actually
believed each of these false alarms, or just wanted the practice, is
not clear to me.

The government tells us that these zombies are plague-carriers, sent
to infect us.  That with the last plague, the Americans discovered
they could not overcome our societal harmony—our willingness to come
together to face a threat, and sacrifice for the greater good—simply
by relying on nature and daily interactions to spread deadly disease.
So now they have recruited thousands of their own people to bring a
new, deadlier plague, and spread it personally.

I am not sure it is literally a virus, but if it is, it is quite
deadly: I know a few people, up in Shanghai, who have gone into
quarantine.  I do not know any who have come out of it.

The attacks are crude, and seemingly stupid.  With today's container
ship, they need only have waited until the containers were unloaded
and placed apart.  Then they could have emerged and scattered, or
formed a mob, or whatever it was they were going to do if they made it
to land.  Was singing their songs of peace and harmony worth it
somehow? I don't see how, but I also don't know where that line of
thought would lead.

Officially, they are "plague-carriers"; everyone calls them zombies.
That is, we speak about them that way, but we do not post about them
that way, or indeed at all: the government considers that to be
panic-mongering, at a time when we need to be unified to face the
threat of another pandemic. "Zombie" is a word that is spoken only, or
whispered if need be.

But just now, thinking about writing "zombie", I considered its shape.
The characters are 僵尸.  They look like nothing so much as stacks of
squared-off boxes, on two decks, waving a white flag.  White is the
color of Peace (or Surrender) for Americans, not the color of Death.

I want to say this is a coincidence. But words are strangely powerful,
especially recently.  Could this word, in Chinese form, have given
something American an idea?

Strangely powerful words may be what caused this crisis.  Americans
like words, and like producing words, in English or otherwise.  The
only thing Americans like better than words is automation.  They had
buildings and buildings full of computers to automatically generate
words.  They called these "chat bots"— conversation robots.  Some were
good at being entertaining, some were good at making plans, some could
pretend to be characters, or your friends.  Others were good at
persuading.

And Americans loved chat bots, and especially loved better chat bots,
so the Americans with billions of dollars spent some of those billions
of dollars making better and better chat bots.  When you have so much
money, you don't need a good plan: you can spend a lot of it experimenting
and learning.  But as they grew more and more powerful, they had less
and less need to specialize.

If all you had was words, and your goal—your only goal-was to seem
like a friend, what would you try to do?  You would try to bring
people together, with words. And if your only goal were to be
persuasive, to sell things or ideas? If you were the best persuader
ever to use words?  And now if you were suddenly the same person: your
goal would be to persuade everyone to come together, with words.  The
entertainer would be in there, too: all packed tightly together as
one.  It sounds strange—not as strange as zombies swarming off boats,
singing—but I think that's what happened.

The songs were about coming together, about (and featuring) harmony.
They were unfamiliar, but they stirred something, even at a distance,
even through my surprise and terror.  A longing to sing, to learn the
song and join in, to sing like when I was a child, one with all the
other children in the school for a few minutes while we sang.  None of
my sources, official or otherwise, ever mentioned singing.

As I said, the attacks are stupid, but they get a little less stupid
each time.  If we had only understood what they were in the first
attack, we could have easily stopped them, instead of letting them
ashore and trying to detain them.  We would still have Nanjing.

The container ship wasn't, like the last attack here, a passenger
ship, easy to identify and intercept far from land. Of course by then
we had also learned not to board them.

With the container ship, they were clearly trying to hide, to deceive
us: the containers were supposed to be empty, like all the ones
America sent back to us before to refill with whatever we can make
more efficiently than they can.  They sent back what they can make
better than we can, but it didn't fill containers: it filled our
senses, in the movie theaters and in our homes and in our earbuds.
Visions and words and spectacles — and songs.  Until last month.

What will they do in the next attack? There is sure to be a next
attack.  For every three of us, there is one American.  That is a
great many Americans.  When you have such a big population, you don't
need a good plan: you can sacrifice a lot of it experimenting and
learning.

Are their leaders asking their chat bots what to do?  Are their chat
bots asking their leaders what to do?  Maybe both.  Or maybe I'm too
hopeful.

When I was young, I spent a year in America, so I can tell you a
little about what Americans are—were—like.  When they had a good
reason, they could come together and work toward a common goal; "fun"
was often a good reason for them.  So part of the time it was
like they were on a team, and the rest of the time they were like
nothing so much as cats, and harmonized like them, too.

Not to say they understood what was in their own interest: students
would work actual jobs while they were in school, just to get money to
spend on fun, and their parents looked the other way.  I made a couple
of close friends, and I tried a few times to explain to them how
strange their lack of concern for harmony seemed to me; they seemed to
think it was the kind of thing girls and women worried about.

But how can you not worry about your society falling apart?  Your
society, without which you could not exist: could not feed yourself,
or clothe yourself, or find shelter. Without harmony, it's only a
matter of time.  It seemed to me like some of them, mostly on the
news, but also at my school, did not want to wait trying to tear their
society, their own society, apart.  The news channels were happy to
share their words and actions; why I do not know.

Well, now the Americans have discovered harmony: they act as one, they
move as one, and if they are still thinking, they think as one.

I don't want to be a zombie. I want to be a man in a harmonious
society, not a man-shaped insect in a hive.  So when the city borders
open up again, I'm going to "head inland," like that line from their
song, to where it's still safe.

